Revamp plugin section (#1039)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/reference/plugins/plugin-api-reference.md

title: Falco Plugins API Reference
linktitle: API Reference
description: Learn how the Plugins API works
weight: 20
aliases:
    - /docs/plugins/plugin_api_reference/

>     - /docs/reference/plugins/plugin_api_reference/

Reviewer: There is no need to add the actual location as an alias.

Also, the previous sections imply that state tables can be operated on during the execution of varios plugin functions, but that however only the `parse_event` function of the event parsing capability can perform write operations. This is by purpose and design due to the architecture of the Falcosecurity libraries themselves.

> There may be use cases in which state updates are the result of some asynchrnous job and computation. For example, the Falcosecurity libraries implement the container metadata enrichment support by connecting to one or more container runtime sockets and fetching information from them asynchronously from a separate thread, outside of the main event processing loop. In those cases, state updates must still happen synchronously. The strategy provided by the plugin framework is the [async events capability](/docs/reference/plugins/plugin-api-reference/#async-events-capability-api). With that, plugins are provided with a thread-safe callback that they can use to inject asynchronous events in the currently-open event stream, and the framework will guarantee those events to be later received by functions such as `parse_event` or `extract_fields` just like any other events. This massaging-like communication mode is the only way by which plugins are allowed to safely use asynchronously-obtained information to perform state updates and field extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may be use cases when the state update results of some asynchronous job and computation. For example, the Falcosecurity libraries implement the container metadata enrichment support by connecting to one or more container runtime sockets and fetching information asynchronously using a separate thread of the main event processing loop. In those cases, state updates must still happen synchronously. The [async events capability](/docs/reference/plugins/plugin-api-reference/#async-events-capability-api) is the strategy provided by the plugin framework. With that, plugins are provided with a thread-safe callback that they can use to inject asynchronous events in the currently-open event stream, and the framework will guarantee those events to be later received by functions such as `parse_event` or `extract_fields` just like any other events. Plugins can only safely utilize asynchronously-obtained information for state updates and field extraction through this messaging-like communication mode.
```

> An additional effect of injecting asynchronous events in an event stream is that they can so be recorder in SCAP capture files, and thus being reproducible when reading events later from that capture files. By having the asynchronous information recorded in the event stream, the event parsing and field extraction plugin functions will be able to work just like in live capture mode by also making all the state transitions reproducible and deterministic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An additional effect of injecting asynchronous events in an event stream is that they can so be recorded in SCAP capture files, thus being reproducible when reading events later from that capture files. By having the asynchronous information recorded in the event stream, the event parsing and field extraction plugin functions will be able to work just like in live capture mode by also making all the state transitions reproducible and deterministic.
```
